public policies shape our daily lives
but understanding what's really behind
them takes more than just understanding
what they propose today we are going to
dive deep into Trump's proposed
educational policies not only to
understand what they are but to
understand how they are framed hi I am
Tamara Richter and this is the school
crisis a channel where we talk about
education today we are learning about
how to think critically about public
policies using a powerful tool called
the what's a problem represented
approach or wpr approach by policy
analyst Carol baky this approach helps
us uncover the deeper assumptions and
implications behind each
policy let's see how it works by
analyzing Trump propos educational
policies the double you PR approach or
what's the problem represented to be is
a method designed to evaluate public
policies critically it's based on the
idea that every policy is a response to
a problem but how that problem is
defined shapes the solution in other
words it's not just about what the
policy proposes but about what the
policy suggests the problem is baki's
approach invites us to ask six key
questions to uncover the underlying
assumptions and possible effects of a
policy today we will focus on three of
them as we go through Trump's proposed
education policies Trump has proposed
reducing the power of the Department of
Education giving more control to State
and local governments let's break this
down using the wpr approach
what is the problem represented to be
the problem appears to be that Federal
control limits flexibility and fails to
meet local needs what are the underlying
assumptions this suggests that education
should be manage closer to home assuming
that local governments know best and can
address educational needs more
effectively than the federal level
potential effects if control is shifted
some states with limited resources might
struggle to provide Equitable education
potentially deepening disparities
between
regions Trump stands on school choice
includes expanding tax credit
scholarships to allow families more
educational options what's the problem
represented to be here the problem is
framed as a lack of options for for
families implying that public schools
may not meet all students needs
underlying assumptions this assumes that
competition between schools will drive
Improvement suggesting that
privatization and market-driven choices
benefit educational
quality potential effects an increasing
school choice might divert funds from
public schools potentially creating a
system when only familyes with resources
can truly
[Music]
choose another of Trump's proposals is
to reform the curriculum focusing on
what he calls Traditional Values and
minimizing woke content so the problem
is framed as a perceived bias or
ideological influence in the current
curriculum that detracts from
traditional educational values this
assumes that Traditional Values are
universally beneficial or that
alternative perspectives May hinder
student
development by Framing curriculum reform
this way it could reduce exposure to
diverse perspectives possibly limiting
critical thinking and inclusivity in
[Music]
classrooms by using the wpr approach
we've seen that policies aren't just a
list of solutions they are reflections
of how problems are framed which affects
what's prioritized who benefits and what
values are promoted but understanding
this is only the first step so once we
have critically analyzed a policy what
can we do next here are a few things to
consider after you understand the
policiy framing and potential impact
engage in informed dialogue discuss
these insights with your community
whether that's friends family colleagues
or online groups sharing a critical
perspective can lead to more thoughtful
conversations and perhaps even broaden
the perspective of others advocate for
adjustments or Alternatives if you
believe the policy could have unintended
negative effects consider advocating for
changes this might mean reaching out to
to local Representatives participating
in public forums or joining advocacy
groups that align with your
perspective evaluate local impact
policies are broad but their effects are
often fa most locally pay attention how
the policy impacts your own
Community whether it's affecting your
local schools access to resources or
educational equity and consider how to
support or challenge it based on what
one you
see and my favorite continue asking
critical questions the wpr approach is
just one way to examine policy once you
start looking at policies critically
keep digging deeper learning to analyze
policies critically is empowering but
taking action based on that
understanding is where real change
begins if we can look at policies
through these lens we have a better
chance chance of creating systems that
serve everyone more effectively how do
you think we can make our voices heard
on educational policies let me know in
the comments and see you next time
[Music]